[Music]
hurricanes are the strongest storms on
earth they look pretty scary but if you
know what to do in preparation for
during and after one hits you have every
chance to weather the storm but first
things first what is a hurricane and how
is it different from a typhoon
hurricanes are huge storms with winds
moving at least 74 miles per hour in the
center of this rotating mass of wind
you'll find the eye this is a small area
of very low pressure and calm winds but
once you go past its edge
the silent calm turns into raging chaos
this eye wall is the most dangerous part
of the storm it's a wall of heavy clouds
with winds reaching speeds of 155 miles
per hour or more hurricanes also bring
billions of tons of rain as they travel
and that can cause flooding scientists
measure the diameter of tropical
cyclones from side to side and they can
be as large as 600 miles or more that's
about the size of Texas depending on
where it's formed this massive storm can
be called either a hurricane in North
America and the Caribbean a cyclone in
the Indian Ocean and Australia or a
typhoon in Southeast Asia
how do hurricanes form these gigantic
beasts are only born over warm ocean
water that's at least 80 degrees
Fahrenheit such water temperatures can
be found in the tropics first warm moist
air rises up over the water then as
cooler air takes its place it also gets
warm and starts moving up as a result
huge storm clouds formed that rotate
like crazy with the spin of the earth
when there's enough warm water and the
wind is blowing in the right direction
this cycle will go on storm clouds grow
stronger the wind gets faster and in the
end a hurricane is born this usually
happens 5 to 15 degrees north and south
of the equator where there's more than
enough warm water to kick-start this
process hurricane season in the
Caribbean and Atlanta
Oshin starts on June 1st and ends
November 30th how strong are hurricanes
the short answer is hurricanes are
strong enough to take seriously the
biggest dangers are flooding rising
ocean levels and winds that can tear
down entire towns and cities but there
is a precise scientific rating system
called the saffir-simpson hurricane wind
scale it categorizes hurricanes based on
sustained wind speed by knowing where a
hurricane stands on this scale you can
predict how much damage it'll do for
example category 1 is accompanied by
wind speeds of 74 to 95 miles per hour
and it means minor damage to power lines
and house siding category 2 is for winds
moving 96 to 110 miles per hour
such hurricanes can uproot trees and
break windows this can cause pretty
extensive damage including total power
outage category three hurricanes with
winds from 111 to 129 miles per hour are
considered devastating because they can
even break house doors category 4
hurricanes come with winds that are
moving at 130 to 156 miles per hour they
can tear off loops and bring
catastrophic damage
finally the strongest of hurricanes are
assigned category 5 on the scale
the winds are then 157 miles per hour
and higher these monstrosity x' can
easily destroy entire houses making
large areas impossible to live in for
weeks or even months how should you get
ready for a hurricane meteorologists
still find it hard to predict hurricanes
precisely the good news is that since
they moved slowly you'll definitely know
a hurricane is approaching make sure
your family has an emergency evacuation
route discuss a meeting place so you
won't panic if you get separated from
each other also make your house more
like a fortress get storm shutters make
sure the garage doors are secure and buy
a generator to guarantee you'll have
your own
electricity in case of an outage and
most importantly prepare an emergency
bag for each family member
materials in it should last you at least
three days those things include one
gallon of drinking water non-perishable
foods and a can opener be sure it also
has self powered radios and flashlights
batteries a whistle and pliers to turn
off the utilities finally don't forget
to throw in a first aid kit and dust
masks how to survive the storm
if the authorities tell you to evacuate
don't try to be a hero
just get out before you leave your home
make sure you turn off the gas and water
to avoid leaks and flooding unplug all
gadgets including TVs and computers if
you have time move things that are near
and dear to you to a higher floor or put
them on higher shelves to protect them
from water fill your gas tank pack your
emergency bags IDs and a change of
clothes then hit the road Jack and don't
look back normally that would mean going
north of the storm or inland in case
you're on the coast what if you decide
to stay if for some reason you choose to
stay in the storm area it's crucial that
you find a sturdy shelter for yourself
your family and your pets there are
community shelters in hurricane prone
areas like Florida these places can help
keep you safe during the storm if you
decide to make your own home your
shelter pick a room that has no windows
or skylights one of the biggest threats
during a hurricane is flying debris and
it can easily come crashing through the
window you should close all windows and
doors and stay as far from them as you
can especially glass once a closet or
bathroom can be good hiding spots for
that reason another option is to hide
under a sturdy table you have to get
into your shelter at least two hours
before the hurricane is there stay
inside even when it sounds like it's
safe outside when it comes to hurricanes
the weather can change for the worst
before you know it water and lightning
put together are a pretty risky
combination
so turn off your main breaker and unplug
major appliances and by no means should
you use them during the storm as you're
moving into your shelter spot grab your
emergency kit there should be a self
powered radio in it remember you'll need
it to monitor updates on the weather
when it gets dark and it will don't use
candles that can set the place on fire
instead use flashlights that run on
batteries using a telephone is highly
unrest at and that's to call 911 if
someone is injured or in
life-threatening danger but remember if
you're in a hurricane there's a high
probability that emergency services will
be unable to get to you until after the
storm moves away unless your house gets
flooded stay inside as long as possible
if flying debris can break through your
windows it can definitely come flying at
you
the only reason to leave your house
during the storm could be to evacuate to
your neighbor's house or shelter when
your home gets damaged the emergency
services might have struck you to do so
as well what to do after the storm you
don't want to risk it
so you've got to be 100% sure it's safe
to leave your shelter
the official all-clear from the
authorities is what you should be
patiently waiting for once you have
power again first check all the
connections then turn on the most
important appliances carefully one by
one and not all at once to avoid damage
and don't turn on electrical or gas
appliances that got wet or damaged as
they might easily catch on fire even
after you get the all-clear signal you
have to be really careful when going
outside depending on the category of the
hurricane there will be varying degrees
of damage but fallen trees wires and
power lines are pretty common in any
case flooded areas can also hide hazards
such as sharp debris in case a house or
building you entered has any signs of
damage leave immediately it can collapse
at any moment once you've made sure your
loved ones are safe you can start taking
care of your property
if your house has any serious damage
take photos and videos of it you might
be able to get compensation from your
insurance company if you file a report
on time if the damage is so bad that you
can't stay in the house let them know
where to find you and keep hotel
receipts for reimbursement if you can't
fix it all yourself try to prevent
damage from spreading cover openings
with plywood or some other material and
put some tarp on the roof don't walk
into a flooded basement it's likely full
of debris and bacteria so pump it out
gradually by about 1/3 a day if you
can't do it yourself ask the fire
department for help
throw out spoiled food and disinfect any
objects that could have been in contact
with sewage bacteria or spilled
chemicals basically you've got lots of
cleaning up to do but at least you're
safe and sound hey if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click on the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life